readme.md, before:

# [Botkit](https://botkit.ai) - Building Blocks for Building Bots

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/botkit.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/botkit)
[![David](https://img.shields.io/david/howdyai/botkit.svg)](https://david-dm.org/howdyai/botkit)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/botkit.svg)](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT)
[![bitHound Overall Score](https://www.bithound.io/github/howdyai/botkit/badges/score.svg)](https://www.bithound.io/github/howdyai/botkit)

Botkit is designed to ease the process of designing and running useful, creative bots that live inside messaging platforms.
Bots are applications that can send and receive messages, and in many cases, appear alongside their human counterparts as _users._

Some bots talk like people, others silently work in the background, while others present interfaces much like modern mobile applications.
Botkit gives developers the necessary tools for building bots of any kind! It provides an easy-to-understand interface for sending and receiving messages so that developers can focus on creating novel applications and experiences instead of dealing with API endpoints.

Our goal with Botkit is to make bot building easy, fun, and accessible to anyone with the desire to create
a future filled with talking machines! We provide several tools to make this vision a reality:

* [Botkit Core Library](#botkit-core-library), an SDK for creating conversational software
* [Plugins and Middlewares](docs/readme-middlewares.md) that can extend and enhance your bot

Botkit features a comprehensive set of tools to deal with popular messaging platforms, including:

* [Slack](docs/readme-slack.md)
* [Cisco Spark](docs/readme-ciscospark.md)
* [Facebook Messenger and Facebook @Workplace](docs/readme-facebook.md)
* [Twilio SMS Messaging](docs/readme-twiliosms.md)
* [Twilio IP Messaging](docs/readme-twilioipm.md)
* [Microsoft Bot Framework](docs/readme-botframework.md)
* Yours? [info@howdy.ai](mailto:info@howdy.ai)

---

# Developer & Support Community

Join our thriving community of Botkit developers and bot enthusiasts at large.
Over 4500 members strong, [our open Slack group](http://community.botkit.ai) is
_the place_ for people interested in the art and science of making bots.
Come to ask questions, share your progress, and commune with your peers!

You can also find help from members of the Botkit team [in our dedicated Cisco Spark room](https://eurl.io/#SyNZuomKx)!

We also host a [regular meetup and annual conference called TALKABOT.](http://talkabot.ai)
Come meet and learn from other bot developers! [Full video of our 2016 event is available on Youtube.](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLD3JNfKLDs7WsEHSal2cfwG0Fex7A6aok)

# Botkit Core Library

Botkit is designed around the idea of giving developers a language-like interface for building bots.
Instead of dealing directly with messaging platform protocols and APIs, Botkit provides semantic functions
designed around the normal parts of human conversation: _hearing things_ and _saying things_.

On top of these basic build blocks, Botkit offers a powerful system for creating and managing dynamic
conversational interfaces, and tapping into cutting edge technology like artificial intelligence (AI)
and natural language understanding (NLP/NLU) tools.

Practically speaking, this results in code that looks like this:

```javascript
// respond when a user sends a DM to the bot that says "hello"
controller.hears('hello', 'direct_message', function(bot, message) {
    bot.reply(message, 'Hello human.');
});
```
All Botkit bots, built for any platform, use these same building blocks. This means developers are not required
to learn the intricacies of each platform, and can build bots that port easily between them.

Botkit can be used to build a stand-alone application, or it can be integrated into existing Node.js
apps to offer a bot experience, or to send application notifications into messaging apps. It is released
under the [MIT open source license](LICENSE.md), which means developers are free to use it any way they choose,
in any type of project.


## Install Botkit from NPM or Github

Botkit is available via NPM.

```bash
npm install
npm install --save botkit-middleware-apiai
```

## Running Tests

To run tests, use the npm `test` command. Note: you will need dev dependencies installed using `npm install`.

```bash
npm test
```

To run tests in watch mode run:

```bash
npm run test-watch
```

Tests are run with [Jest](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/getting-started.html). You can pass Jest command line options after a `--`.
For example to have Jest bail on the first error you can run

```bash
npm test -- --bail
```
## Run Botkit

To run Botkit run :

```bash
node facebook_bot.js --lt --ltsubdomain <SUBDOMAIN_NAME>
```
<SUBDOMAIN_NAME> being your localtunnel sub domain where the bot will be available, following the template :

https://<SUBDOMAIN_NAME>.localtunnel.me/


## Documentation

* [Get Started](docs/readme.md)
* [Botkit Studio API](docs/readme-studio.md)
* [Function index](docs/readme.md#developing-with-botkit)
* [Extending Botkit with Plugins and Middleware](docs/middleware.md)
  * [List of current plugins](docs/readme-middlewares.md)
* [Storing Information](docs/storage.md)
* [Logging](docs/logging.md)
* Platforms
  * [Slack](docs/readme-slack.md)
  * [Cisco Spark](docs/readme-ciscospark.md)
  * [Facebook Messenger](docs/readme-facebook.md)
  * [Twilio SMS](docs/readme-twiliosms.md)
  * [Twilio IPM](docs/readme-twilioipm.md)
  * [Microsoft Bot Framework](docs/readme-botframework.md)
* Contributing to Botkit
  * [Contributing to Botkit Core](CONTRIBUTING.md)
  * [Building Middleware/plugins](docs/howto/build_middleware.md)
  * [Building platform connectors](docs/howto/build_connector.md)

# About Botkit

Botkit is a product of [Howdy](https://howdy.ai).

For support, check out [the Developer Community](#developer--support-community) and find our team in the #Botkit channel.

Commit message:

Readme: add botkit update instruction
This adds procedure to update botkit and restart the instance in the
server.

Also add a TODO section.

readme.md, after:

# [Botkit](https://botkit.ai) - Building Blocks for Building Bots

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/botkit.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/botkit)
[![David](https://img.shields.io/david/howdyai/botkit.svg)](https://david-dm.org/howdyai/botkit)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/botkit.svg)](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT)
[![bitHound Overall Score](https://www.bithound.io/github/howdyai/botkit/badges/score.svg)](https://www.bithound.io/github/howdyai/botkit)

Botkit is designed to ease the process of designing and running useful, creative bots that live inside messaging platforms.
Bots are applications that can send and receive messages, and in many cases, appear alongside their human counterparts as _users._

Some bots talk like people, others silently work in the background, while others present interfaces much like modern mobile applications.
Botkit gives developers the necessary tools for building bots of any kind! It provides an easy-to-understand interface for sending and receiving messages so that developers can focus on creating novel applications and experiences instead of dealing with API endpoints.

Our goal with Botkit is to make bot building easy, fun, and accessible to anyone with the desire to create
a future filled with talking machines! We provide several tools to make this vision a reality:

* [Botkit Core Library](#botkit-core-library), an SDK for creating conversational software
* [Plugins and Middlewares](docs/readme-middlewares.md) that can extend and enhance your bot

Botkit features a comprehensive set of tools to deal with popular messaging platforms, including:

* [Slack](docs/readme-slack.md)
* [Cisco Spark](docs/readme-ciscospark.md)
* [Facebook Messenger and Facebook @Workplace](docs/readme-facebook.md)
* [Twilio SMS Messaging](docs/readme-twiliosms.md)
* [Twilio IP Messaging](docs/readme-twilioipm.md)
* [Microsoft Bot Framework](docs/readme-botframework.md)
* Yours? [info@howdy.ai](mailto:info@howdy.ai)

---

# Developer & Support Community

Join our thriving community of Botkit developers and bot enthusiasts at large.
Over 4500 members strong, [our open Slack group](http://community.botkit.ai) is
_the place_ for people interested in the art and science of making bots.
Come to ask questions, share your progress, and commune with your peers!

You can also find help from members of the Botkit team [in our dedicated Cisco Spark room](https://eurl.io/#SyNZuomKx)!

We also host a [regular meetup and annual conference called TALKABOT.](http://talkabot.ai)
Come meet and learn from other bot developers! [Full video of our 2016 event is available on Youtube.](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLD3JNfKLDs7WsEHSal2cfwG0Fex7A6aok)

# Botkit Core Library

Botkit is designed around the idea of giving developers a language-like interface for building bots.
Instead of dealing directly with messaging platform protocols and APIs, Botkit provides semantic functions
designed around the normal parts of human conversation: _hearing things_ and _saying things_.

On top of these basic build blocks, Botkit offers a powerful system for creating and managing dynamic
conversational interfaces, and tapping into cutting edge technology like artificial intelligence (AI)
and natural language understanding (NLP/NLU) tools.

Practically speaking, this results in code that looks like this:

```javascript
// respond when a user sends a DM to the bot that says "hello"
controller.hears('hello', 'direct_message', function(bot, message) {
    bot.reply(message, 'Hello human.');
});
```
All Botkit bots, built for any platform, use these same building blocks. This means developers are not required
to learn the intricacies of each platform, and can build bots that port easily between them.

Botkit can be used to build a stand-alone application, or it can be integrated into existing Node.js
apps to offer a bot experience, or to send application notifications into messaging apps. It is released
under the [MIT open source license](LICENSE.md), which means developers are free to use it any way they choose,
in any type of project.


## Install Botkit from NPM or Github

Botkit is available via NPM.

```bash
npm install
npm install --save botkit-middleware-apiai
```

## Running Tests

To run tests, use the npm `test` command. Note: you will need dev dependencies installed using `npm install`.

```bash
npm test
```

To run tests in watch mode run:

```bash
npm run test-watch
```

Tests are run with [Jest](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/getting-started.html). You can pass Jest command line options after a `--`.
For example to have Jest bail on the first error you can run

```bash
npm test -- --bail
```
## Run Botkit

To run Botkit run :

```bash
node facebook_bot.js --lt --ltsubdomain <SUBDOMAIN_NAME>
```
<SUBDOMAIN_NAME> being your localtunnel sub domain where the bot will be available, following the template :

https://<SUBDOMAIN_NAME>.localtunnel.me/

## Update Botkit on the server

First connects to the docker instance via ssh

```bash
ssh ubuntu@<your-ec2-key>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

You are now connected to the ec2.

Note: For now, the botkit instance runs in the background.

```bash
cd botkit/
killall node
git pull
node facebook_bot.js --lt --ltsubdomain <SUBDOMAIN_NAME> &
```

Note: Do not forget the & at the end of the command. This puts the node process in the baground allowing it to not be killed when you close the terminal.

## Todo
* Create init.d script to automate botkit start, stop and update.
* Secure localtunnel

## Documentation

* [Get Started](docs/readme.md)
* [Botkit Studio API](docs/readme-studio.md)
* [Function index](docs/readme.md#developing-with-botkit)
* [Extending Botkit with Plugins and Middleware](docs/middleware.md)
  * [List of current plugins](docs/readme-middlewares.md)
* [Storing Information](docs/storage.md)
* [Logging](docs/logging.md)
* Platforms
  * [Slack](docs/readme-slack.md)
  * [Cisco Spark](docs/readme-ciscospark.md)
  * [Facebook Messenger](docs/readme-facebook.md)
  * [Twilio SMS](docs/readme-twiliosms.md)
  * [Twilio IPM](docs/readme-twilioipm.md)
  * [Microsoft Bot Framework](docs/readme-botframework.md)
* Contributing to Botkit
  * [Contributing to Botkit Core](CONTRIBUTING.md)
  * [Building Middleware/plugins](docs/howto/build_middleware.md)
  * [Building platform connectors](docs/howto/build_connector.md)

# About Botkit

Botkit is a product of [Howdy](https://howdy.ai).

For support, check out [the Developer Community](#developer--support-community) and find our team in the #Botkit channel.
